In the previous video,
you were introduced to the
generative AI
project life cycle.
As you saw, there
are a few steps to
take before you can
get to the fun part,
launching your
generative AI app.
Once you have scoped
out your use case,
and determined how you'll need
the LLM to work within
your application,
your next step is to select
a model to work with.
Your first choice will be to
either work with
an existing model,
or train your own from scratch.
There are specific
circumstances where training
your own model from scratch
might be advantageous,
and you'll learn about
those later in this lesson.
In general, however, you'll
begin the process of developing
your application using an
existing foundation model.
Many open-source models are
available for members of
the AI community like you
to use in your application.
The developers of some of
the major frameworks
for building
generative AI applications
like Hugging Face and PyTorch,
have curated hubs where you
can browse these models.
A really useful feature of
these hubs is the
inclusion of model cards,
that describe important details
including the best use
cases for each model,
how it was trained,
and known limitations.
You'll find some links to
these model hubs in the reading
at the end of the week.
The exact model that
you'd choose will depend
on the details of the task
you need to carry out.
Variance of the transformer
model architecture
are suited to different
language tasks,
largely because of differences
in how the models are trained.
To help you better understand
these differences and to develop
intuition about which model
to use for a particular task,
let's take a closer look at
how large language
models are trained.
With this knowledge in hand,
you'll find it
easier to navigate
the model hubs and find the
best model for your use case.
To begin, let's take
a high-level look
at the initial training
process for LLMs.
This phase is often referred
to as pre-training.
As you saw in Lesson 1,
LLMs encode
a deep statistical
representation of language.
This understanding is developed
during the models
pre-training phase
when the model learns
from vast amounts
of unstructured textual data.
This can be gigabytes,
terabytes, and even
petabytes of text.
This data is pulled
from many sources,
including scrapes off the
Internet and corpora of texts
that have been assembled
specifically for training
language models.
In this self-supervised
learning step,
the model internalizes
the patterns
and structures present
in the language.
These patterns then
enable the model
to complete its
training objective,
which depends on the
architecture of the model,
as you'll see shortly.
During pre-training,
the model weights get
updated to minimize the loss
of the training objective.
The encoder generates
an embedding
or vector representation
for each token.
Pre-training also
requires a large amount
of compute and the use of GPUs.
Note, when you
scrape training data
from public sites
such as the Internet,
you often need to process the
data to increase quality,
address bias, and remove
other harmful content.
As a result of this
data quality curation,
often only 1-3% of tokens
are used for pre-training.
You should consider
this when you
estimate how much data you
need to collect if you
decide to pre-train
your own model.
Earlier this week, you
saw that there were
three variance of the
transformer model;
encoder-only encoder-decoder
models, and decode-only.
Each of these is trained
on a different objective,
and so learns how to carry
out different tasks.
Encoder-only models are also
known as Autoencoding models,
and they are pre-trained using
masked language modeling.
Here, tokens in the input
sequence or randomly mask,
and the training
objective is to predict
the mask tokens in order to
reconstruct the
original sentence.
This is also called a
denoising objective.
Autoencoding models spilled
bi-directional representations
of the input sequence,
meaning that the model
has an understanding of
the full context of a token
and not just of the
words that come before.
Encoder-only models
are ideally suited to
task that benefit from this
bi-directional contexts.
You can use them to carry out
sentence classification
tasks, for example,
sentiment analysis
or token-level tasks
like named entity recognition
or word classification.
Some well-known examples of
an autoencoder model
are BERT and RoBERTa.
Now, let's take a look at
decoder-only or
autoregressive models,
which are pre-trained using
causal language modeling.
Here, the training
objective is to predict
the next token based on the
previous sequence of tokens.
Predicting the next token
is sometimes called
full language modeling
by researchers.
Decoder-based
autoregressive models,
mask the input
sequence and can only
see the input tokens leading
up to the token in question.
The model has no knowledge
of the end of the sentence.
The model then iterates
over the input sequence
one by one to predict
the following token.
In contrast to the
encoder architecture,
this means that the
context is unidirectional.
By learning to predict
the next token
from a vast number of examples,
the model builds up
a statistical
representation of language.
Models of this type make use of
the decoder component off
the original architecture
without the encoder.
Decoder-only models are often
used for text generation,
although larger
decoder-only models
show strong zero-shot
inference abilities,
and can often perform
a range of tasks well.
Well known examples of
decoder-based autoregressive
models are GBT and BLOOM.
The final variation of
the transformer model is the
sequence-to-sequence model
that uses both the encoder and
decoder parts off the original
transformer architecture.
The exact details of the
pre-training objective vary
from model to model.
A popular sequence-to-sequence
model T5,
pre-trains the encoder
using span corruption,
which masks random
sequences of input tokens.
Those mass sequences are then
replaced with a unique
Sentinel token,
shown here as x. Sentinel
tokens are special tokens
added to the vocabulary,
but do not correspond to
any actual word from
the input text.
The decoder is then tasked with
reconstructing the mask
token sequences
auto-regressively.
The output is the Sentinel token
followed by the
predicted tokens.
You can use
sequence-to-sequence models for
translation, summarization,
and question-answering.
They are generally useful in
cases where you have a body
of texts as both
input and output.
Besides T5,
which you'll use in the
labs in this course,
another well-known
encoder-decoder model
is BART, not bird.
To summarize, here's
a quick comparison of
the different model
architectures and
the targets off the
pre-training objectives.
Autoencoding models
are pre-trained
using masked language modeling.
They correspond to
the encoder part
of the original
transformer architecture,
and are often used with
sentence classification
or token classification.
Autoregressive models
are pre-trained
using causal language modeling.
Models of this type make use of
the decoder component of
the original transformer
architecture,
and often used for
text generation.
Sequence-to-sequence models
use both the encoder and
decoder part off the original
transformer architecture.
The exact details of the
pre-training objective vary
from model to model.
The T5 model is pre-trained
using span corruption.
Sequence-to-sequence
models are often used for
translation, summarization,
and question-answering.
Now that you have seen how
this different model
architectures are
trained and the specific tasks
they are well-suited to,
you can select the
type of model that
is best suited to your use case.
One additional thing
to keep in mind
is that larger models of
any architecture
are typically more
capable of carrying
out their tasks well.
Researchers have found
that the larger a model,
the more likely it is to
work as you needed to
without additional in-context
learning or further training.
This observed trend of
increased model capability with
size has driven
the development of
larger and larger
models in recent years.
This growth has been fueled by
inflection points and research,
such as the introduction of
the highly scalable
transformer architecture,
access to massive amounts
of data for training,
and the development of more
powerful compute resources.
This steady increase in
model size actually led
some researchers to hypothesize
the existence of a new
Moore's law for LLMs.
Like them, you may be asking,
can we just keep
adding parameters to
increase performance and
make models smarter?
Where could this
model growth lead?
While this may sound great,
it turns out that training
these enormous models is
difficult and very expensive,
so much so that it
may be infeasible to
continuously train larger
and larger models.
Let's take a closer look
at some of the challenges
associated with training large
models in the next video.